# GeoClass--Uncertainty-classifier-How-to-visualise-uncertainty-by-zones-and-levels?
This model is a simple method to classify, quantify and illustrate the uncertainty in subsurface interpretation using python open source libraries. This model takes a practical and coding focused approach to visualise the uncertainty in subsurface interpretations by calculating zones and levels of uncertainty—the Five uncertainty zones created by measuring the distance from outcrops, galleries and boreholes.

# Read our Paper [Link]
# Abstract

  Subsurface geological structures are generally complicated and very hard to interpret. This algorithm aims to use Python coding language to visualise and measure the uncertainty in subsurface geological interpretations of any subsurface structure from sparse and incomplete datasets. The complex history of geological structures is difficult to unravel from limited data, and ‘accurate’ interpretations are associated with subsurface structural interpretation uncertainties. These challenges often result in the employment of heuristics, rules of thumb, and know solutions to subsurface interpretations that introduced bias. Excellent visualisation provided by Open 3D as a modern open-source library created for massive data processing makes such library perfect for visualising interpretations of subsurface structural geometries. However, illustrating and quantifying uncertainty in geological interpretations of subsurface cross-sections is still ambiguous. Here we provide an automatic data-driven approach model to illustrate and quantify uncertainty using subsurface cross-sections of geological/structural geometries. Five zones have been calculated to display uncertainty in geological cross-section interpretations. These five uncertainty zones are applied to horizons and faults interpretations. Together they form a critical part of the dataset. These calculated uncertainty zones and levels allow the investigation of cross-section building and interpretation from level 1, where direct observations of the rock can be made, outwards, whilst illustrating increasing uncertainty. Our uncertainty classification model applies to any sub-surface datasets and can be used to inform approaches to sub-surface interpretations elsewhere. We claim that quantifying uncertainty by zones and levels can provide a framework for reducing interpretation risk and improving the visualisation of uncertainties in subsurface cross-sections.

# Overview
  This model is a simple method to classify, quantify and illustrate the uncertainty in subsurface interpretation using python open source libraries. This model takes a practical and coding focused approach to visualise the uncertainty in subsurface interpretations by calculating zones and levels of uncertainty—the Five uncertainty zones created by measuring the distance from outcrops, galleries and boreholes.

image-5.png

Schematic model to illustrate uncertainty and risk zones and associated uncertainty nomenclature for horizons and faults interpretations. (a) Uncertainty zones defined by five levels. Zone-1 it is the most certain zone and defines as the area of the outcrops and galleries. Zone-2 it is the certain zone and defines as the areas around outcrops and between galleries. Zone-3 it is the possible zone and defines as the area within 100m from the data source. Zone-4 it is the uncertain zone and defines as the area beyond 100m from the data source. Zone-5 it is the least certain zone and defines as the surface area needed to understand the subsurface geological model. (b) Schematic representation of geology with the definition of uncertainty in geological boundaries. Level-1 it is the direct observation from outcrops and galleries. Level-2 it is geological boundaries interpretation in and around outcrops and between galleries. Level-3 it is the geological boundaries interpretation within 100m from direct observation. Level-4 it is geological boundaries interpretation beyond 100m from direct observation. Level-5 it is the eroded interpretation of geology needed to understand the subsurface geological model.
